---
title: 2026 Personal Development Plan
description: Personal development plan for Austin Ayers over the calendar year 2026, finalized in January 2026
---

# 2026 Personal Development Plan

## Knowledge

### Books to Read/Listen To

| Title | Author Name | Category | Audiobook? |
| :---- | :---------- | :------: | :--------: |
| *Enshittification: Why Everything Suddenly Got Worse and What to Do About It* | Cory Doctorow | Technology | :material-check: |
| *The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine* | Michael Lewis | Finance | :material-check: |
| *What Does It All Mean: A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy* | Thomas Nagel | Philosophy | :material-check: |
| *Think* | Simon Blackburn | Philosophy | :material-close: |
| *Game Programming Patterns* | Robert Nystrom | Coding | :material-close: |
| *Mercury Rising: John Glenn, John Kennedy, and the New Battleground of the Cold War* | Jeff Shesol | History | :material-check: |
| *Mythos* | Stephen Fry | History | :material-check: |
| *Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual* | John Z. Sonmez | Self Improvement | :material-close: |
| *Algorithms to Live By: The Computer Science of Human Decisions* | Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths | Self Improvement | :material-close: |
| *A Little History of Philosophy* | Nigel Warburton | Philosophy | :material-check: |
| *A Promised Land* | Barack Obama | Memoir | :material-check: |

### Professional Devlopment

#### Gain LLM and Generative AI Comfort
These tools are not going away any time soon, and the need to add the ability to manage and use them to the resume is becoming paramount. 

To help this comfortablility, a dashboard should be developed in Node.js using React components. This project will 
be guided an scaffolded by Claude and be used to visualize various recovery statistics throughout the year.

#### Kubernetes Knowledge

This year, an interest to expand on for the resume is to learn more containerization, specifically Kubernetes and its tech stack. To do this
I will complete the Udemy course:

- Kubernetes Certified Application Developer (CKAD) with Tests

Following this course completion, the Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) exam will be passed for certification.

#### .NET Language and Structure 

It seems that over the coming year it will be imperative to gain proficiency in both .NET programming languages
(C#, F#, etc.) and the build structure for work. This will require conistent outside typical work hours work to maintain standards, so time
needs to be set aside to iterate on these skills with side projects and other various ways to stay up to date.

A fun way to do this would be to continue to iterate on game ideas within the MonoGame engine, which uses pure
.NET

#### Continue to Work on Side Projects

By the end of 2026 the:

- resume site will be feature complete with only new experiences being added
- NBA stat application will have a working UI and fully developed backend
- Arbitrage dashboard with Drew will be in a usable condition for at least two prediction markets.

## Financial

### Figure Out a Sustainable Budget for Current Situation

Rocket Money budget is out of date. Update all of the categories and start to refine more specific portions to 
identify problem areas in the first 2 months of the year to get a handle of it

- Decide if current BettorOdds subscription is worthwhile
- Focus on cooking more food and less out to eat
    - Outside of dates and lunches with Nana, only one out to eat a week if sitdown/two if fast food

### Continue to Contribute to Retirement Accounts

Josh is a fantastic resource to bounce ideas off of in addition to managing the retirement accounts, use that 
resource. 

Contributions this year:

- Get to $10k contributed to Rockefeller accounts
    - $7.5k commited to Roth IRA
    - $230 per month from February to December gets to this goal
- Continue to contribute 10% of gross pay to 401k
- Continue to invest money over $1k in HSA

Re-Evalute position in April after merit increases go through at work

## Health

### Doctor's Visits

A primary care doctor is something that needs to be found this year. Kate's situation shows that datapoints
on your health are important, primary care provider would be important this year.

### Fitness

The name of the game this year is hypertrophy and strength. To do this workout cycles will be broken down into
8 week cycles, with the goal of 5 days in the gym and two recovery days. In the summer those recovery days will
include a walk outside on the trails, and gym will go to 4 days a week to account for sprinting intervals on what
would have been the 5th gym day.

### Recovery

The goal this year is to create a managable schedule for sleep and maximize recovery as it relates to fitness.
To achieve this, sleep needs to become more dialed in. No staying awake until almost 4 am anymore, the body just
doesn't recover well enough anymore.

The goal is to average 21 green recovery days a month, with an additional 5 days of above 50% yellow recovery. This
will allow for some days of poor recovery, but still allow for alcohol consumption and some days of little rest